doc: create ai-guidelines and include to CONTRIBUTING (#62105)
nodejs/node: doc/contributing/ai-guidelines.md

# AI use policy and guidelines

* [Core principle](#core-principle)
* [Using AI for code contributions](#using-ai-for-code-contributions)
* [Using AI for communication](#using-ai-for-communication)

This document aligns with the [OpenJS Foundation AI Coding Assistants Policy][].

## Core principle

Node.js expects contributions to come from _people_. Contributors are free
to use whatever tools they choose, including AI assistants, but such tools
never replace the contributor's own understanding and responsibility.

Node.js requires contributors to understand and take full responsibility for
every change they propose. The answer to "Why is X an improvement?" can
never be "I'm not sure. The AI did it."

If AI tools assisted in generating a contribution, acknowledge that honestly.
Regardless of how much code is generated by AI, disclosure does not serve

> as a disclaimer of responsibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as a disclaimer of responsibility.

```

The contributor remains the sole author and bears full responsibility for every line.
If the disclosure involves trademarks or commercial brands, it's recommended to
anonymize it in the commit message or only mention the brand/trademark in the
PR description, but not in the commit message, unless the context would not
have made sense without mentioning the specific brand/trademark. The goal

> is to prevent the commit messages, which are part of the code base, from being

Reviewer 2: nite: codebase
```suggestion
is to prevent the commit messages, which are part of the codebase, from being
```

> abused for for-profit marketing.

Reviewer: Still generally disagree that this recommendation is at all necessary.

> abused for for-profit marketing.

Reviewer 2: nit: "for for-profit" -> "for profit-driven"
```suggestion
abused for profit-driven marketing.
```

  that AI-generated or AI-assisted contributions satisfy the project's
  [Developer's Certificate of Origin][] and licensing requirements. Be
  prepared to explain any change in detail during review.

* **Keep logical commits.** Structure commits coherently even when an LLM
  generates multiple changes at once. Follow the existing
  [commit message guidelines][].

* **Test thoroughly.** AI-generated code must pass the full test suite and
  any manually written tests relevant to the change. Existing tests should not
  be removed or modified without human verification. Do not rely on the LLM
  to assess correctness. It is crucial to manually verify the correctness of
  tests against the expected behavior of the feature being tested,
  independently of the feature's implementation.

* **Do not disappear.** If you open a PR, follow it through. Respond to
  feedback and iterate until the work lands or is explicitly closed. If you
  can no longer pursue it, close the PR. Stalled PRs block progress.

* **Do not use AI to claim "good first issue" tasks.** These issues exist to
  help new contributors learn the codebase and processes hands-on.

> * **Edit generated comments critically.** LLM-produced comments are often

Reviewer 2: nit: use "LLM-generated" for consistency?
```suggestion
* **Edit generated comments critically.** LLM-generated comments are often
```

This document aligns with the [OpenJS Foundation AI Coding Assistants Policy][].

## Core principle

Node.js expects contributions to come from _people_. Contributors are free
to use whatever tools they choose, including AI assistants, but such tools
never replace the contributor's own understanding and responsibility.

Node.js requires contributors to understand and take full responsibility for
every change they propose. The answer to "Why is X an improvement?" can
never be "I'm not sure. The AI did it."

If AI tools assisted in generating a contribution, acknowledge that honestly.
Regardless of how much code is generated by AI, disclosure does not serve
as a disclaimer of responsibility.

The contributor remains the sole author and bears full responsibility for every line.
If the disclosure involves trademarks or commercial brands, it's recommended to
anonymize it in the commit message or only mention the brand/trademark in the
PR description, but not in the commit message, unless the context would not
have made sense without mentioning the specific brand/trademark. The goal
is to prevent the commit messages, which are part of the codebase, from being

> abused for profit-driven marketing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Be aware that the mention of for-profit trademarks or commercial brands in commit
messages, which are part of the code base, can be abused for profit-driven marketing.
If the disclosure involves for-profit trademarks or commercial brands, it's
recommended to either anonymize the branding (e.g. say `a frontier reasoning model`,
`a closed-source coding agent` instead of `<brand>`), or only mention the
for-profit brand/trademark in the PR description, but not in the commit message,
unless the message would not have made sense without mentioning the specific
brand/trademark. These recommendations only apply to for-profit tools/models, not
any non-profit ones.
```

(I don't know how far we are from this, but it's seems totally possible that there can be public, non-profit model providers in the future. That and non-profit open source harness already exists, in those cases these recommendations wouldn't make as much sense).

Pull requests that contain AI-generated code the contributor has not
personally understood, tested, and verified waste collaborator time and
will be subject to closure without additional review. Contributors who
repeatedly submit such changes, show no understanding of the project or
its processes, or are dishonest about the use of automated assistance
may be blocked from further contributions.

Pull requests must not be opened by automated tooling, unless specifically
approved in advance by the project. To request approval, either open an issue in
[nodejs/admin](https://github.com/nodejs/admin/issues), or if the automation can
be done in the form of a GitHub workflow, submit a pull request to add the workflow
and use the usual pull request review process to seek consensus.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Pull requests created with AI assistance must still be human-reviewable. Large pull requests,
no matter created with the help of AI or not, must comply to the
[large pull requests policy](./large-pull-requests.md).
```

> ## Using AI for code contributions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## When AI is used in contributions
```

> Contributors may use AI tools to assist with contributions, but such tools
> never replace human judgment.
> 
> When using AI as a coding assistant:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tools should never replace human judgment, regardless of whether they are powered by AI.
```

* **Understand the codebase first.** Do not skip familiarizing yourself with
  the relevant subsystem. LLMs frequently produce inaccurate descriptions of
  Node.js internals — always verify against the actual source. When using an AI
  tool, ask it to cite the exact source it’s relying on, and then
  match the claim against that resource to verify if it holds up in the current

>   code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Understand the codebase first.** Do not skip familiarizing yourself with
  the relevant subsystem. Always verify analysis generated by tools against
  the actual source code with human judgement.
```

I don't think it's necessary to give prompt engineering advices in the guidelines, only the goals are invariants, prompting techniques might vary a lot depending on the tool people use and specific prompting advices might age like milk. Another better invariant is "what roles human must play" instead of "what role LLM can play".

* **Own every line you submit.** You are responsible for all code in your
  pull request, regardless of how it was generated. This includes ensuring
  that AI-generated or AI-assisted contributions satisfy the project's
  [Developer's Certificate of Origin][] and licensing requirements. Be

>   prepared to explain any change in detail during review.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Own every line you submit.** You are responsible for all code in your
  pull request, regardless of how it was created. The submitted changes
  must satisfy the project's [Developer's Certificate of Origin][] and licensing
  requirements. Be prepared to explain any change in detail during review.
```

* **Keep logical commits.** Structure commits coherently even when an LLM
  generates multiple changes at once. Follow the existing

>   [commit message guidelines][].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Keep the commits logical.** The [commit message guidelines][]
  and [commit squashing guidelines](./pull-requests.md#commit-squashing)
  must be followed regardless of what tool is used in the pull request.
```

* **Test thoroughly.** AI-generated code must pass the full test suite and
  any manually written tests relevant to the change. Existing tests should not
  be removed or modified without human verification. Do not rely on the LLM
  to assess correctness. It is crucial to manually verify the correctness of
  tests against the expected behavior of the feature being tested,

>   independently of the feature's implementation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Test thoroughly.** Existing tests should not be removed or modified
  without human verification. It is crucial to verify, with human judgement,
  the correctness of new tests against the expected behavior of the feature being
  tested, independently of the feature's implementation.
```

* **Do not disappear.** If you open a PR, follow it through. Respond to
  feedback and iterate until the work lands or is explicitly closed. If you
  can no longer pursue it, close the PR. Stalled PRs block progress.

* **Do not use AI to claim "good first issue" tasks.** These issues exist to
  help new contributors learn the codebase and processes hands-on.

* **Edit generated comments critically.** LLM-generated comments are often
  verbose or inaccurate. Remove comments that simply restate what the code

>   does; add comments only where the logic is non-obvious.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Keep the comments useful.** Verify with human judgement that the
  comments are necessary and accurate. Remove comments that simply
  restate what the code does. Add comments only where the logic is non-obvious.
```

> ## Using AI for communication

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## When AI is used in communications
```

Node.js values concise, precise communication that respects collaborator and contributor time.

* **Do not post messages generated entirely by AI** in pull requests, issues, or the
  project's communication channels.
* **Verify accuracy** of any LLM-generated content before including it in a
  PR description or comment.
* **Link to primary sources** — code, documentation, specifications — rather

>   than quoting LLM answers or linking to LLM chats.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Do not paste messages generated entirely by AI** in pull requests, issues, or the
  project's communication channels. Such communication may be removed in accordance
  to [the Node.js moderation policy](https://github.com/nodejs/admin/blob/main/Moderation-Policy.md).
* **Verify claims about the code with human judgement before using them in communications**. Results
  from AI tools should only be treated as hypothesis. Link to actual code, documentation and
  specifications as source of truth. 
```

I think we should hash out the "what can be in communications" in the moderation policy, not here..

  pull request, regardless of how it was generated. Be prepared to explain
  any change in detail during review.

* **Keep logical commits.** Structure commits coherently even when an LLM
  generates multiple changes at once. Follow the existing
  [commit message guidelines][].

* **Test thoroughly.** AI-generated code must pass the full test suite and
  any manually written tests relevant to the change. Existing Tests should not
  be removed or modified without human verification. Do not rely on the LLM
  to assess correctness.

* **Edit generated comments critically.** LLM-produced comments are often
  verbose or inaccurate. Remove comments that simply restate what the code
  does; add comments only where the logic is non-obvious.

## Using AI for communication

Node.js values concise, precise communication that respects collaborator time.

* **Do not post AI-generated messages** in pull requests, issues, or the
  project's communication channels.
* **Verify accuracy** of any LLM-generated content before including it in a
  PR description or comment.
* **Complete pull request templates fully** rather than replacing them with

>   LLM-generated summaries.

Reviewer 4: The text referred to in this comment is no longer included in the document.

# AI use policy and guidelines

* [Core principle](#core-principle)
* [Using AI for code contributions](#using-ai-for-code-contributions)
* [Using AI for communication](#using-ai-for-communication)

## Core principle

Node.js expects contributors to understand and take full responsibility for

> every change they propose. The answer to "Why is X an improvement?" should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
every change they propose. The answer to "Why is X an improvement?" can
```

never be "I'm not sure. The AI did it."

Pull requests that consist of AI-generated code the contributor has not
personally understood, tested, and verified waste collaborator time and
will be subject to closure without additional review.

## Using AI for code contributions

AI tools may assist contributors, but must not replace contributor judgment.

> When using AI as a coding assistant:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contributors may use AI tools to assist with contributions, but such tools
never replace contributor judgement.

When using AI as a coding assistant:
```

* **Understand the codebase first.** Do not skip familiarizing yourself with
  the relevant subsystem. LLMs frequently produce inaccurate descriptions of
  Node.js internals — always verify against the actual source. When using an AI
  tool, ask it to cite the exact source files/PRs/docs it’s relying on, and then
  match the claim against that resource to verify if it holds up in the current
  code.

* **Own every line you submit.** You are responsible for all code in your
  pull request, regardless of how it was generated. Be prepared to explain
  any change in detail during review.

* **Keep logical commits.** Structure commits coherently even when an LLM
  generates multiple changes at once. Follow the existing
  [commit message guidelines][].

* **Test thoroughly.** AI-generated code must pass the full test suite and
  any manually written tests relevant to the change. Existing tests should not
  be removed or modified without human verification. Do not rely on the LLM
  to assess correctness.

> * **Do not disappear.** If you open a PR, follow it through. Respond to

Reviewer 5: I would actually push it down to 3 months, given that the "never stale" label is available.

  feedback and iterate until the work lands or is explicitly closed. If you
  can no longer pursue it, close the PR. Stalled PRs block progress.

> * **Edit generated comments critically.** LLM-produced comments are often

Reviewer 6: I would recommend adding an extra rule to not push "linter" changes that LLM usually does, it's pretty frequent at [meteor](https://github.com/meteor/meteor), and dirty the commits and PR history

  verbose or inaccurate. Remove comments that simply restate what the code
  does; add comments only where the logic is non-obvious.

## Using AI for communication

> Node.js values concise, precise communication that respects collaborator time.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Node.js values concise, precise communication that respects collaborator and contributor time.
```

* **Do not post messages generated entirely by AI** in pull requests, issues, or the

>   project's communication channels.

Reviewer: I'm less convinced this one is necessary. It's also difficult to enforce. These should follow the same rules as contributions... whatever is posted, you're responsible for, so use appropriate discretion.

Reviewer 8: > It's only difficult to enforce if it's low quality prose, though, in which case this item seems like it'd be needed.

Creating incentives to breaking the rules in letter and assuming that those rules in letter would be broken is a bad policy (and means that the rule is formulated incorrectly)

It should be rephrased in a way that would allow high-effort/reviewed comments even if primarly generated by LLM, but disallow unreviewed/low-quality ones.

* **Verify accuracy** of any LLM-generated content before including it in a
  PR description or comment.
* **Complete pull request templates fully** rather than replacing them with

>   LLM-generated summaries.

Reviewer 4: This isn't in the document anymore.

# AI use policy and guidelines

* [Core principle](#core-principle)
* [Using AI for code contributions](#using-ai-for-code-contributions)
* [Using AI for communication](#using-ai-for-communication)

This document aligns with the [OpenJS Foundation AI Coding Assistants Policy][].

## Core principle

Node.js expects contributions to come from _people_. Contributors are free
to use whatever tools they choose, including AI assistants, but such tools
never replace the contributor's own understanding and responsibility.

Node.js requires contributors to understand and take full responsibility for
every change they propose. The answer to "Why is X an improvement?" can
never be "I'm not sure. The AI did it."

If AI tools assisted in generating a contribution, that should be

> acknowledged honestly (e.g., via an `Assisted-by:` tag in the commit

Reviewer 8: I would prefer for mostly-ai-driven (but reviewed by human) contributions to be _explicitly_ labeled as mostly-ai-driven.

`Assisted-by` obscures that to an extent.

E.g. if the code is mostly auto-generated, it should be the main author and the human only a co-author _and_ a `Signed-off-by` to signal acceptance/origin in terms of DCO.

Reviewer 8: Hm.

The OpenJSF policy (at https://openjsf.cdn.prismic.io/openjsf/aca4d5GXnQHGZDiZ_OpenJS_AI_Coding_Assistants_Policy.pdf) specifies `Assisted-by` for AI assistants indeed.

Still, non ideal, but likely not something that can be solved at a project level?

Reviewer 9: > E.g. if the code is mostly auto-generated, it should be the main author and the human only a co-author and a Signed-off-by to signal acceptance/origin in terms of DCO.

I disagree with having tooling be the contribution's main author. This isn't aligned with taking responsibility for the contributions (signed-off-by !== author) and doesn't sit well with changelog entries.

While you may use assistants for the content it is ultimately you, the human, we expect a contribution from.

Reviewer 5: an option could be to _also_ add a label

> metadata) so that reviewers have appropriate context.

Author: So, what's the status here? Should we change something? If so, which suggestion do we agree on?

> metadata) so that reviewers have appropriate context.

Reviewer 3: I think we can recommend anonymise the tool: a CLI coding agent backed by a reasoning model, etc. Would be enough. Use your discretion when mentioning a name that's a commercial brand or a trademark.

(TBH I feel flaunting trademarks in commit logs is rather inappropriate, but if it's relevant enough it's okay)

> Pull requests that consist of AI-generated code the contributor has not

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
Pull requests that contain AI-generated code the contributor has not
```

Pull requests must not be opened by automated tooling not specifically
approved in advance by the project.

## Using AI for code contributions

Contributors may use AI tools to assist with contributions, but such tools
never replace human judgment.

When using AI as a coding assistant:

* **Understand the codebase first.** Do not skip familiarizing yourself with
  the relevant subsystem. LLMs frequently produce inaccurate descriptions of
  Node.js internals — always verify against the actual source. When using an AI
  tool, ask it to cite the exact source it’s relying on, and then
  match the claim against that resource to verify if it holds up in the current
  code.

* **Own every line you submit.** You are responsible for all code in your
  pull request, regardless of how it was generated. This includes ensuring
  that AI-generated or AI-assisted contributions satisfy the project's
  [Developer's Certificate of Origin][] and licensing requirements. Be
  prepared to explain any change in detail during review.

* **Keep logical commits.** Structure commits coherently even when an LLM
  generates multiple changes at once. Follow the existing
  [commit message guidelines][].

> * **Test thoroughly.** AI-generated code must pass the full test suite and
>   any manually written tests relevant to the change. Existing tests should not
>   be removed or modified without human verification. Do not rely on the LLM
>   to assess correctness.

Reviewer 10: Some hallucination machines may write tests based on the implementation of a feature instead of considering the expected behavior of the feature.

```suggestion
* **Test thoroughly.** AI-generated code must pass the full test suite and
  any manually written tests relevant to the change. Existing tests should not
  be removed or modified without human verification. Do not rely on the LLM
  to assess correctness. It is crucial to manually verify the correctness of
  tests against the expected behavior of the feature being tested,
  independently of the feature's implementation.
```

Reviewer 8: Can we extract this and also apply to human-written code too? (but keep it here also)

I believe we have existing decade-old tests that should be subject to this

Mostly "increase coverage" PRs are highly subject to documenting bugs instead of fixing them (not just in Node.js, but overall)

# AI use policy and guidelines

* [Core principle](#core-principle)
* [Using AI for code contributions](#using-ai-for-code-contributions)
* [Using AI for communication](#using-ai-for-communication)

This document aligns with the [OpenJS Foundation AI Coding Assistants Policy][].

## Core principle

Node.js expects contributions to come from _people_. Contributors are free
to use whatever tools they choose, including AI assistants, but such tools
never replace the contributor's own understanding and responsibility.

Node.js requires contributors to understand and take full responsibility for
every change they propose. The answer to "Why is X an improvement?" can
never be "I'm not sure. The AI did it."

If AI tools assisted in generating a contribution, that should be
acknowledged honestly (e.g., via an `Assisted-by:` tag in the commit

> metadata) so that reviewers have appropriate context.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
metadata) so that reviewers have appropriate context.
If the disclosure involves trademarks or commercial brands, it's recommended to
anonymize it in the commit message or only mention it in the PR description, but
not in the commit message, unless the context would not have made sense without
mentioning the specific brand/trademark.
```

Reviewer: I still disagree with this. There's nothing wrong with mentioning product names in the `Assisted-by` attribute and I consider it to be more useful to be clearer about which tool/model was used when reviewing these changes. So I'm strongly -1 on this suggestion.

Reviewer 3: > There's nothing wrong with mentioning product names in the Assisted-by attribute

Metadata in the commit message has been gamed by various vendors as a marketing gimmick (e.g. https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=47989883) and I think it's obviously problematic for Node.js to have a loophole that makes it another marketing ground. I also think as of May 2026, the differences in frontier tool/model is mostly negligible (at least no more relevant than "what tier of subscription are you on" and I think it's absolutely off limits to include "some provider's $100/month plan" in the commit message even though in the real world that may make a lot more difference than what model/tool you use) and specific mentions serves more for their marketing than for reviewer's gains. It's also not that actionable - if it is, it could lead to "can you try this tool/this model/this provider" "can you use the $100/month plan" nonsensical marketing suggestions or "this tool/model/provider is just inferior" nonsensical marketing debates unless we forbid discussions about these commercial brands.

Reviewer: I'm not following. The idea is simply, `Assisted-by: {Agent}:{Model}`, e.g. `Assisted-by: Opencode:Opus-4.6`, etc. No one is suggesting including anything like "some provider's $100/month plan" in the commit message.

Reviewer 3: > I consider it to be more useful to be clearer about which tool/model was used when reviewing these changes

Note that the suggestion includes moving that to PR description - for review this is at least less inappropriate than in commit messages. Not to mention that commit messages are technically part of the code base and I consider mentioning these brands in the commit message as inappropriate as mentioning them in code comments.

Reviewer 3: > No one is suggesting including anything like "some provider's $100/month plan" in the commit message.

If the motivation is that "this provides context", then in the real world, "being on a $10/month plan" v.s. "being on a $100/month plan" can make a lot more difference than the combination of model/tools in terms of quality/pattern of output - yet it's obviously inappropriate to include it in the commit message, so my point is, being useful does not outweigh the inappropriateness of putting marketing information in the commit message. If it's absolutely useful, at least don't put it in the commit message which is technically part of the code base. There are more than enough places to communicate the use of a tool other than in the commit message.

Reviewer: Ok. I still disagree, tho. I see absolutely nothing wrong with mentioning the agent/model name in the commit message.

Reviewer 3: > I see absolutely nothing wrong with mentioning the agent/model name in the commit message.

I think we can start a vote on that. In general I am -1 in any guideline that encourages putting brand or trademark names in the commit message, regardless it's about AI or not. If somehow there are non-profit agent/model names that are neither a brand nor a trademark, I think that's fine. If they are brands/trademarks for profit, then -1 from me to put them in commit messages and they should belong to e.g. PR descriptions.

* [Core principle](#core-principle)
* [Using AI for code contributions](#using-ai-for-code-contributions)
* [Using AI for communication](#using-ai-for-communication)

This document aligns with the [OpenJS Foundation AI Coding Assistants Policy][].

## Core principle

Node.js expects contributions to come from _people_. Contributors are free
to use whatever tools they choose, including AI assistants, but such tools
never replace the contributor's own understanding and responsibility.

Node.js requires contributors to understand and take full responsibility for
every change they propose. The answer to "Why is X an improvement?" can
never be "I'm not sure. The AI did it."

If AI tools assisted in generating a contribution, acknowledge that honestly
in the commit metadata using an `Assisted-by:` trailer. This applies
regardless of how much of the work was AI-generated — the contributor
remains the sole author and bears full responsibility for every line.
If the disclosure involves trademarks or commercial brands, it's recommended to
anonymize it in the commit message or only mention it in the PR description,
but not in the commit message, unless the context would not have made sense

> without mentioning the specific brand/trademark.

Reviewer 3: The wording are now incompatible - whether it goes into commit metadata should depend on whether it involves for-profit brand/trademarks.

```suggestion
If AI tools assisted in generating a contribution, acknowledge that honestly.
This applies regardless of how much of the work was AI-generated - the
contributor remains the sole author and bears full responsibility for every line.
If the disclosure involves trademarks or commercial brands, it's recommended to
anonymize it in the commit message or only mention the brand/trademark in the
PR description, but not in the commit message, unless the context would not
have made sense without mentioning the specific brand/trademark. The goal
is to prevent the commit messages, which are part of the code base, from being
abused for for-profit marketing.
```

Reviewer 3: FWIW I think the first and second sentences are contradicting each other in logic, the correct logical connection isn't "acknowledging use of AI = a claimer of responsibility" (suggested by the dash and kind of conflicting), but "acknowledging the use of AI cannot serve as a disclaimer" (i.e. we do not take such disclaimer), if this is trying to address https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/62105#discussion_r3110451824. A more logically sound wording would be

```suggestion
If AI tools assisted in generating a contribution, acknowledge that honestly.
Regardless of how much code is generated by AI, disclosure does not serve
as a disclaimer of responsibility.
The contributor remains the sole author and bears full responsibility for every line.
If the disclosure involves trademarks or commercial brands, it's recommended to
anonymize it in the commit message or only mention the brand/trademark in the
PR description, but not in the commit message, unless the context would not
have made sense without mentioning the specific brand/trademark. The goal
is to prevent the commit messages, which are part of the code base, from being
abused for for-profit marketing.
```

If AI tools assisted in generating a contribution, acknowledge that honestly.
Regardless of how much code is generated by AI, disclosure does not serve
as a disclaimer of responsibility.
The contributor remains the sole author and bears full responsibility for every line.
If the disclosure involves trademarks or commercial brands, it's recommended to
anonymize it in the commit message or only mention the brand/trademark in the
PR description, but not in the commit message, unless the context would not
have made sense without mentioning the specific brand/trademark. The goal
is to prevent the commit messages, which are part of the code base, from being
abused for for-profit marketing.

Pull requests that contain AI-generated code the contributor has not
personally understood, tested, and verified waste collaborator time and
will be subject to closure without additional review. Contributors who
repeatedly submit such changes, show no understanding of the project or
its processes, or are dishonest about the use of automated assistance
may be blocked from further contributions.

Pull requests must not be opened by automated tooling not specifically

> approved in advance by the project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pull requests must not be opened by automated tooling, unless specifically
approved in advance by the project. To request approval, either open an issue in
[nodejs/admin](https://github.com/nodejs/admin/issues), or if the automation can
be done in the form of a GitHub workflow, submit a pull request to add the workflow
and use the usual pull request review process to seek consensus.
```

`<brand>`), or only mention the for-profit brand/trademark in the PR
description, but not in the commit message, unless the message would not have
made sense without mentioning the specific brand/trademark. These
recommendations only apply to for-profit tools/models, not any non-profit ones.

Pull requests that contain AI-generated code the contributor has not
personally understood, tested, and verified waste collaborator time and
will be subject to closure without additional review. Contributors who
repeatedly submit such changes, show no understanding of the project or
its processes, or are dishonest about the use of automated assistance
may be blocked from further contributions.

Pull requests must not be opened by automated tooling, unless specifically
approved in advance by the project. To request approval, either open an issue in
[nodejs/admin](https://github.com/nodejs/admin/issues), or if the automation can
be done in the form of a GitHub workflow, submit a pull request to add the
workflow and use the usual pull request review process to seek consensus.

## When AI is used in contributions

Contributors may use AI tools to assist with contributions, but such tools

> never replace human judgment.

Reviewer: This is redundant to the opening principle

When using AI as a coding assistant:

* **Understand the codebase first.** Do not skip familiarizing yourself with
  the relevant subsystem. Always verify analysis generated by tools against
  the actual source code with human judgement.

* **Own every line you submit.** You are responsible for all code in your
  pull request, regardless of how it was created. The submitted changes
  must satisfy the project's [Developer's Certificate of Origin][] and licensing
  requirements. Be prepared to explain any change in detail during review.

* **Keep the commits logical.** The [commit message guidelines][]
  and [commit squashing guidelines](./pull-requests.md#commit-squashing)
  must be followed regardless of what tool is used in the pull request.

* **Test thoroughly.** Existing tests should not be removed or modified
  without human verification. It is crucial to verify, with human judgement,
  the correctness of new tests against the expected behavior of the feature

>   being tested, independently of the feature's implementation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  the correctness of new tests against the intended behavior of the feature
  being tested, independently of how the implementation happens to behave.
```

I was just reading a post by a maintainer of another prominent OSS project today who was frustrated by a 10K+ LOC AI-generated PR and saw some wording about this behavior that we can borrow - I also saw this behavior when reviewing https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/63115 which exposed `internalModuleStat` by mistake and then went on to make even more mistakes by ensuring the internal API is publicly usable 🤦🏻‍♀️, seems like a common issue of AI-generated big patches

  can no longer pursue it, close the PR. Stalled PRs block progress.

* **Do not use AI to claim "good first issue" tasks.** These issues exist to
  help new contributors learn the codebase and processes hands-on.

* **Keep the comments useful.** Verify with human judgement that the
  comments are necessary and accurate. Remove comments that simply
  restate what the code does. Add comments only where the logic is non-obvious.

## When AI is used in communications

Node.js values concise, precise communication that respects collaborator and
contributor time.

* **Do not paste messages generated entirely by AI** in pull requests, issues,
  or the project's communication channels. Such communication may be removed in
  accordance to [the Node.js moderation policy][].
* **Verify claims about the code with human judgement before using them in
  communications**. Results from AI tools should only be treated as hypothesis.
  Link to actual code, documentation and specifications as source of truth.
* Grammar and spell-check tools are acceptable when they improve clarity and
  conciseness.

[Developer's Certificate of Origin]: ../../CONTRIBUTING.md#developers-certificate-of-origin-11

> [OpenJS Foundation AI Coding Assistants Policy]: https://openjsf.cdn.prismic.io/openjsf/aca4d5GXnQHGZDiZ_OpenJS_AI_Coding_Assistants_Policy.pdf

Reviewer 4: https://openjsf.cdn.prismic.io/openjsf/aca4d5GXnQHGZDiZ_OpenJS_AI_Coding_Assistants_Policy.pdf

appears to require being signed in / registered

```console
<Error>
<Code>AccessDenied</Code>
<Message>Access Denied</Message>
<RequestId>Q4PJFW5DTXPF60M2</RequestId>
<HostId>DThjC66NyLlnreUxdA+C10PpWQtvM0gI+BpFJf7VBPqB+HI1ojUux7IqPfyl4LKXmwcoZuA5ogBHpbU1sTcfrKg/c6NvcsXJ</HostId>
```

Reviewer 4: https://ai-coding-assistants-policy.openjsf.org/  works without signing in.

> [OpenJS Foundation AI Coding Assistants Policy]: https://openjsf.cdn.prismic.io/openjsf/aca4d5GXnQHGZDiZ_OpenJS_AI_Coding_Assistants_Policy.pdf

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[OpenJS Foundation AI Coding Assistants Policy]: https://ai-coding-assistants-policy.openjsf.org/
```

Reviewer 4: The generic link is already used on https://nodejs.org/en

<img width="934" height="1259" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d989974a-28ef-4c13-8dd6-52312e154979" />

Added by https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs.org/pull/8807 in April 2026.
